**Aaron Lorenzo Woods** alwoods@utexas.eduÂ \| aaronwoods.info

Department of Biomedical Engineering

Cockrell School of Engineering

The University of Texas at Austin

Austin, TX 78712

**EDUCATION**

**Ph.D. Biomedical Engineering** June 2026 *(expected)*

University of Texas at Austin GPA: 4.0

Portfolio in Imaging Science

**B.S. Engineering Leadership** December 2020

University of Texas at El Paso (UTEP) GPA: 3.46

Minor in Commercial Music and Recording

**PUBLICATIONS AND PATENTS**

Niemeier, R., Schnoor, N., **Woods, A.L.,** Rogers, J.D. "Calibration of
liquid crystal variable retarders using a common-path interferometer and
fit of a closed-form expression for the retardance curve," published to
**Applied Optics**, October 2020.\
\
Malady, B., **Woods, A.L.,** Pogue, M., Purani, H. "Theranostic Delivery
System," **Provisional Patent** Application, No. 63/442436, granted
March 2, 2023.

Engelmann, S.A., Tomar, A., **Woods, A.L.,** Dunn, A.K. "Pulse train
gating to improve signal generation for in vivo two-photon fluorescence
microscopy," published to **Neurophotonics,** October 2023.

Chu, D.Y., Ravelli, M.N., Faltersack, K.M., **Woods, A.L.,** Almane, D.,
Li, Z., Sampene, E., Felton, E.A. (2023). "Hypocarnitinemia and its
effect on seizure control in adult patients with intractable epilepsy on
the modified Atkins diet," submitted to **Frontiers in Nutrition,
Nutrition and Metabolism**, September 29, 2023. Manuscript ID: 1304209.

**RESEARCH EXPERIENCE**

**Graduate Student Researcher,** University of Texas at Austin 2021 --
Present

Department of Biomedical Engineering \| *Advisor: Dr. Andrew Dunn*

- Developed optical imaging techniques and alignment of laser microscope
  systems

- Investigating digital image processing, quantification, and
  visualization

- Training on surgical craniotomies and animal care for neurovascular
  imaging

- Conducted experiments, simulations, data analysis, and summarization
  of findings

**Graduate Rotation Student,** University of Texas at Austin Summer 2021

Department of Biomedical Engineering \| *Advisor: Dr. Mia Markey*

- Design of decision support system for breast cancer patients

- Collaborated with researchers and clinicians to improve patient care

- Investigated the role of emotions, biases, and heuristics in decision
  making

**Graduate Rotation Student,** University of Texas at Austin Fall 2021

Department of Biomedical Engineering \| *Advisor: Dr. Evan Wang*

- Conducted EEG data acquisition and analysis to analyze the brain while
  sleeping

- Created SOP for fabricating state of the art dry electrodes for long
  recordings

- Assisted with the design and testing of novel electrode materials

**\**

**Undergraduate Student Researcher,** University of Texas at El Paso
2019 -- 2020

Create Lab \| *Advisor: Dr. Peter Golding*

- Innovated on engineering education regarding ethics and leadership

- Programmed advising software to assist with course recommendation

- Optimized the advising process to better facilitate faculty and
  student

**Undergraduate Student Researcher,** University of Wisconsin-Madison
Summer 2019

Adult Neurology Ketogenic Diet Therapy Clinic \| *Advisor: Dr. Elizabeth
Felton*

- Data visualization of patient data for clinical and dietary analysis

- Managed HIPAA compliance, safety, and ethics for patient research

- Shadowed doctor-patient relationship and treatment of epilepsy

**Undergraduate Student Researcher,** University of Wisconsin-Madison
Summer 2018

Biomedical Optics Lab \| *Advisor: Dr. Jeremy Rogers*

- Constructed an interferometer to measure phase delay

- Programmed an automated calibration software for optical equipment

- Inspected laboratory standards and practices for maintaining lab

**RESEARCH FUNDING**

**Ruth Kirchstein Imaging Science Fellowship,** National Institutes of
Health 2021 -- 2022

- \$27,591 awarded over 1 year

**West Texas Fellowship,** The University of Texas at Austin 2022 --
2024

- \$32,000 awarded over 1 year

**Cockrell School Fellowship**, The University of Texas at Austin 2024
-- 2025

- \$20,000 awarded over one year

**Thrust Fellowship Supplement,** The University of Texas at Austin 2021
-- 2025

- \$36,000 awarded over four years

**Dean's Fellowship Supplement,** The University of Texas at Austin 2021

- \$1,000 awarded over one year

**ACADEMIC APPOINTMENTS**

**Graduate Student Researcher** Summer 2021 -- Present

University of Texas at Austin, Department of Biomedical Engineering

**Undergraduate Student Researcher** Fall 2019 -- Spring 2020

UTEP, Department of Engineering Education and Leadership

**Undergraduate Student Researcher** Summer 2018, 2019

University of Wisconsin-Madison**,** Department of Biomedical
Engineering

**Undergraduate Teaching Assistant** Spring 2018

UTEP, Department of Engineering Education and Leadership

**TEACHING EXPERIENCE**

**Undergraduate Teaching Assistant,** University of Texas at El Paso
Spring 2018

Department of Engineering Education and Leadership \| *Design Nature*

- Coordinated the trainings of students to use a fabrication laboratory

- Taught procedures on computer-aided design and simulation

- Directed the development process to build working prototypes

**HONORS & AWARDS**

**Texas Health Catalyst Finalist,** Dell Medical Center 2023

Awarded Industry Mentorship to Commercialize a Product.

**Marvin & Ellie Selig Entrepreneurship Award,** Texas Innovation Center
2022

Awarded \$2,500 to advance an entrepreneur effort by developing
prototypes.

**Imaging Science Best Poster Award,** The University of Texas at Austin
2022

**Engineering Leadership Character Award,** University of Texas at El
Paso 2020

Awarded by department to one graduating student with exceptional
character.

**Hunt Startup Sponsorship,** Arrowhead Center 2020

**Bob & Diane Malone Leadership Scholarship** University of Texas at El
Paso 2016 -- 2020

**Theta Delta Lambda Education Scholarship,** University of Texas at El
Paso 2016

**Robert G Neill, Jr Scholarship,** University of Texas at El Paso 2016

**College of Engineering Dean's List,** University of Texas at El Paso
2016 -- 2018

**POSTER PRESENTATIONS**

- Aaron L. Woods; Andrew K. Dunn. **Investigating Neurovascular
  Angiogenesis through Optical Imaging.** University of Texas at Austin
  T32 Retreat, Austin, TX, USA, May 10, 2022

- Arron L. Woods; Daniel Y. Chu; Michele N. Ravelli; Kelly Faltersack;
  Elizabeth Felton. **Carnitine Deficiencies: Clinical Insights for
  Ketogenic Diet Therapies.** UW- Madison SURE Poster Session, Madison,
  WI, USA, July 31, 2019

- Arron L. Woods; Jeremy D. Rogers. **Automated Calibration of Liquid
  Crystal Variable Retarder**. UW- Madison SURE Poster Session, Madison,
  WI, USA, July 31, 2018

- ESW-UTEP. Project Mine-Rcycler: **Producing filament and 3D printed
  consumer goods from plastic waste.** Engineers for a Sustainable World
  2019 Annual Conference Poster Session, El Paso, TX, USA, April 5, 2019

**ACADEMIC SERVICE**

**Chairman of the Board of Directors,** ICC Austin 2022 -- Present

501(c)(3) Non-Profit \| *ED: Ashleigh R. Lassiter*

- Facilitated meetings to align groups with the strategic vision and
  mission.

- Guided discussions with various stakeholders on property management.

- Directed the board\'s initial strategic plan to improve staff
  retention and housing.

**Black Graduate Student Agency Director,** Graduate Student Assembly
2022 -- Present

The University of Texas at Austin

- Built relationships with underrepresented groups committed to equality

- Plan professional development, advocacy, and social events.

- Promote the interests of the graduate student population

**Community Organizer,** Sunrise Movement El Paso 2020 -- 2021

- Strategized solidarity and trust building with local allies

- Plan and organize with other organizations for joint efforts

- Established weekly virtual meetings for safe discussions

**Social Chair,** Green Team (UTEP) 2020

**Webmaster,** Engineers for a Sustainable World (UTEP) 2017 -- 2019

**College Recruiter,** University of Texas at El Paso 2018

**Volunteer Leader,** Young Life College (UTEP) 2016 -- 2018

**PROFESSIONAL EXPERIENCE**

**Sr. Intern (Co-op),** *Thermo Fisher Scientific Inc. (MSD)* 2023 --
December 2023

Pioneered a neural network project, applying CNNs for enhanced image
classification pivotal to semiconductor defect analysis. Implemented and
refined machine learning algorithms using TensorFlow and Keras, leading
to improved diagnostic capabilities. Developed a Python script to
automate image data collection, yielding a large-scale image repository
that facilitated the advancement of AI model training and accuracy in
material analysis.

**Co-founder,** *Therosafe (Startup)* 2021 -- Present

As co-founder of a startup in the field of theranostics, I play a
multifaceted role with a focus on operations. I contributed to the
development of the company\'s concept, deliverables, and presentations,
created visualizations to showcase the product, and applied to various
competitions to clearly articulate the need we are solving.

**Community Outreach Specialist,** *University of Texas at El Paso* 2020

Experienced in developing and implementing marketing programs for
outreach/recruitment. Assisted in curriculum and materials development.
Evaluated program success and adjusted. Conducted program education and
exhibit presentations.

**Project Manager,** *US Army NETCOM* 2020

Project Manager with experience leading a team of engineers to improve
military data collection tools. Produced technical reports, organized
processes, and evaluated evaluation methods and database UX design.

**Project Analyst,** *University of Texas at El Paso* 2018 -- 2019

Extracted and visualized retention rates using historical enrollment
data. Assisted with in-person, online, and telephone inquiries for
academic department operations. Improved the advising process for 200+
students and mentored student staff for future data management and
reporting.

**College Recruiter,** Department of Engineering Education and
Leadership 2018 -2020

Experienced in leading STEM events, increasing student enrollment and
retention. Implemented innovative sessions for K-12 students.

**Sound Engineer,** Beacon Hill Recording Studios, LLC 2018 -- 2019

Experienced in microphone placement and sound recording. Verified
signal-flow configurations and used industry-standard DAWs for editing
and mixing. Collaborated with musicians and producers to deliver
high-quality recordings.

**Student Ambassador,** Amazon \| Riddle and Bloom 2018 -- 2019

Improved brand awareness through coordinated events with 300+ student
interactions. Developed and executed digital, experiential, and
peer-to-peer tactics for student engagement. Collaborated with school
organizations for growth opportunities and mutual support.

**Project Finance Engineer,** Sonora Bank 2017

Experienced financial engineer with a focus on personal financial
statement design and formatting. Shadowed bank operations and presented
financial operations in group meetings. Improved financial operations
for community banks.

**CONFERENCE PARTICIPATION**

**Latinx Student Leadership Community Summit,** Google 2020

**Neuroscience Initiative to Enhance Diversity Program,** UC Davis 2020

**Social Change Leadership Summit,** UTEP 2019 -- 2020

**Opportunities in Engineering Conference,** UW-Madison 2018
